.SH Familiar and Unfamiliar Quotations
.SH About Life (http://norvig.com/quotations.html#life), The Universe (http://norvig.com/quotations.html#universe), Computers, (http://norvig.com/quotations.html#computers) and Everything (http://norvig.com/quotations.html#everything)
.PP
   *   *   *   *   *
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l.
T{
\f[B]Life\f[R]
T}
.TE
.PP
Always do right.
This will gratify some people and astonish the rest.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Mark Twain (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_twain)\f[R]
.PP
A man is a success if he gets up in the morning and gets to bed at
night, and in between he does what he wants to do.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Bob Dylan (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bob_Dylan)\f[R]
.PP
Don\[aq]t wait for the Last Judgement.
It takes place every day.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Albert
Camus (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Camus)\f[R]
.PP
Brick walls are there for a reason.
They\[aq]re not there to keep us out.
The brick walls are there to give us a chance to show how badly we want
something.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Randy Pausch (http://randypausch.com/)\f[R]
.PP
Far and away the best prize life has to offer is the chance to work hard
at work worth doing.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Theodore
Roosevelt (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theodore_Roosevelt)\f[R]
.PP
I cannot afford to waste my time making money.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Louis
Agassiz (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_Agassiz)\f[R]
.PP
All you have to decide is what you\[aq]re going to do with the time you
are given.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Gandalf (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gandalf)\f[R]
.PP
The quality of a person\[aq]s life is in direct proportion to their
commitment to excellence, regardless of their field of endeavor.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Vince Lombardi (http://www.vincelombardi.com/)\f[R]
.PP
No art, however minor, demands less than total dedication if you want to
excel in it.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Leon Battista
Alberti (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leone_Battista_Alberti),
(architect, painter and mathematician)\f[R]
.PP
My crystal ball is fuzzy
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Lotfi
Zadeh (http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/People/Faculty/Homepages/zadeh.html)
(inventor of Fuzzy Logic, when asked to predict the future)\f[R]
.PP
If I had a dollar for every million-dollar idea I\[aq]ve had, I\[aq]d be
rich.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Greg
Meyer (http://www.compliancemedia.com/Principals.html)\f[R]
.PP
There\[aq]s nothing that will change someone\[aq]s moral outlook quicker
than cash in large sums.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Larry
Flynt (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Flynt)\f[R]
.PP
The perfect is the enemy of the good.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Voltaire (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voltaire)\f[R]
.PP
I have great faith in fools.
Self-confidence, my friends call it.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Edgar Allen
Poe (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edgar_Allan_Poe)\f[R]
.PP
The point of all this is to be able to spend more time at the beach!
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Nils
Nilsson (http://robotics.stanford.edu/users/nilsson/bio.html)\f[R]
.PP
Being famous has its benefits, but fame isn\[aq]t one of them.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Larry Wall (http://www.wall.org/~larry/)\f[R]
.PP
Personally, I liked the university.
They gave us money and facilities, we didn\[aq]t have to produce
anything! You\[aq]ve never been out of college! You don\[aq]t know what
it\[aq]s like out there! I\[aq]ve \f[I]worked\f[R] in the private
sector.
They expect \f[I]results\f[R].
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Dr Ray Stanz (Dan
Aykroyd) (http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000101/), Ghostbusters\f[R]
.PP
A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely
rearranging their prejudices.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - William
James (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_James)\f[R]
.PP
It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a thought
without accepting it.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Aristotle (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aristotle)\f[R]
.PP
I try to leave out the parts that people skip.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Elmore Leonard (http://en.wikipedia.org/Elmore_Leonard)
(on his secret to writing)\f[R]
.PP
Either write something worth reading or do something worth writing.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Benjamin
Franklin (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Franklin)\f[R]
.PP
Believe, if thou wilt, that mountains change their place, but believe
not that man changes his nature.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Mohammed (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohammed)\f[R]
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l.
T{
\f[B]The Universe\f[R]
T}
.TE
.PP
In the beginning, the Universe was created.
This has made a lot of people very angry and been widely regarded as a
bad move.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Douglas Adams (http://www.douglasadams.com/)\f[R]
.PP
Space isn\[aq]t remote at all.
It\[aq]s only an hour\[aq]s drive away if your car could go straight
upwards.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Fred Hoyle (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fred_Hoyle)\f[R]
.PP
Man is the best computer we can put aboard a spacecraft...
and the only one that can be mass produced with unskilled labor.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Wernher von
Braun (http://liftoff.msfc.nasa.gov/academy/history/vonBraun/vonBraun.html)\f[R]
.PP
We can lick gravity, but sometimes the paperwork is overwhelming.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Wernher von
Braun (http://liftoff.msfc.nasa.gov/academy/history/vonBraun/vonBraun.html)\f[R]
.PP
I don\[aq]t see any god up here.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Yuri Gagarin (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gagarin) (in
orbit, 1961)\f[R]
.PP
Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and
I\[aq]m not sure about the former.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Albert
Einstein (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Einstein)\f[R]
.PP
There are 10^11^ stars in the galaxy.
That used to be a \f[I]huge\f[R] number.
But it\[aq]s only a hundred billion.
It\[aq]s less than the national deficit! We used to call them
astronomical numbers.
Now we should call them economical numbers.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Richard Feynman (http://www.feynmanonline.com/)\f[R]
.PP
For all our conceits about being the center of the universe, we live in
a routine planet of a humdrum star stuck away in an obscure corner ...
on an unexceptional galaxy which is one of about 100 billion galaxies.
\&...
That is the fundamental fact of the universe we inhabit, and it is very
good for us to understand that.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Carl Sagan (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Sagan)\f[R]
.PP
Far out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable end of the
Western Spiral arm of the Galaxy lies a small unregarded yellow sun.
Orbiting this at a distance of roughly ninety-eight million miles is an
utterly insignificant little blue-green planet whose ape-descended life
forms are so amazingly primitive that they still think digital watches
are a pretty neat idea.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Douglas Adams (http://www.douglasadams.com/)\f[R]
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l.
T{
\f[B]Computers\f[R]
T}
.TE
.PP
Some software is actually pretty good, by any standard.
Think of the Mars Rovers, Google, and the Human Genome Project.
Now, that\[aq]s quality software!
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Bjarne Stroustrup (http://parasol.tamu.edu/people/bs/),
(when asked by Technology
Review (http://www.technologyreview.com/Infotech/17987/?a=f) \[dq]Why is
software so bad?\[dq]. I\[aq]m proud to have worked on two of those
three projects.)\f[R]
.PP
The world has arrived at an age of cheap complex devices of great
reliability; and something is bound to come of it.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Vannevar
Bush (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vannevar_Bush) (1945)\f[R]
.PP
Power corrupts, and obsolete power corrupts obsoletely.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Ted Nelson (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ted_Nelson), on
the Microsoft DOS operating system\f[R]
.PP
Computers make it easier to do a lot of things, but most of the things
they make it easier to do don\[aq]t need to be done
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Andy
Rooney (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andy_Rooney)\f[R]
.PP
As soon as we started programming, we found out to our surprise that it
wasn\[aq]t as easy to get programs right as we had thought.
Debugging had to be discovered.
I can remember the exact instant when I realized that a large part of my
life from then on was going to be spent in finding mistakes in my own
programs.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Maurice
Wilkes (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maurice_Wilkes)\f[R]
.PP
Only wimps use tape backup: \f[I]real\f[R] men just upload their
important stuff on ftp, and let the rest of the world mirror it.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Linus
Torvalds (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds)\f[R]
.PP
C++ is history repeated as tragedy.
Java is history repeated as farce.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Scott McKay (mailto:swm@mediaone.net)\f[R]
.PP
Nothing is destroyed until it is replaced.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Auguste Comte
(1798-1857) (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Auguste_Comte) (on the need
for revolutionary new theories (or on the need to do
\f[CI]x.f = null\f[I] in garbage-collected languages with
destructors))\f[R]
.PP
In general, they do what you want, unless you want consistency.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Larry Wall (http://www.wall.org/~larry/) (on Perl
functions)\f[R]
.PP
Computer language design is just like a stroll in the park.
Jurassic Park, that is.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Larry Wall (http://www.wall.org/~larry/)\f[R]
.PP
If you give someone Fortran, he has Fortran.
If you give someone Lisp, he has any language he pleases.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Guy L.
Steele (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guy_Steele)\f[R]
.PP
[Lisp] is the only computer language that is beautiful.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Neal
Stephenson (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neal_Stephenson)\f[R]
.PP
If you can\[aq]t hear me, it\[aq]s because I\[aq]m in parentheses.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Steven
Wright (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_Wright)\f[R]
.PP
He who refuses to do arithmetic is doomed to talk nonsense.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - John McCarthy (http://www-formal.stanford.edu/jmc/)\f[R]
.PP
Belief is no substitute for arithmetic.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Henry Spencer (http://www.lysator.liu.se/c/henry/)\f[R]
.PP
Object-oriented programming is an exceptionally bad idea which could
only have originated in California.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Edsger
Dijkstra (http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/UTCS/report/1994/profiles/dijkstra.html)
(attributed)\f[R]
.PP
We read Knuth so you don\[aq]t have to.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ -Tim Peters (http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?TimPeters) (explaining
what the Python developers do in their spare time)\f[R]
.PP
Computers are useless.
They can only give you answers.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Pablo Picasso (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Picasso)\f[R]
.PP
I do not believe in objects.
I believe only in their relationships.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - George Braque (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Braque)\f[R]
.PP
I don\[aq]t paint things.
I only paint the difference between things.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Henri Matisse (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matisse)\f[R]
.PP
Mathematicians do not study objects, but relations among objects; they
are indifferent to the replacement of objects by others as long the
relations don\[aq]t change.
Matter is not important, only form interests them.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Henri
Poincare (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_Poincar%C3%A9)\f[R]
.PP
Have nothing in your houses that you do not know to be useful, or
believe to be beautiful.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - William Morris (http://www.morrissociety.org/)\f[R]
.PP
All models are wrong.
Some models are useful.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - George
Box (http://www.engr.wisc.edu/ie/faculty/box_george.html)\f[R]
.PP
When cryptography is outlawed, bayl bhgynjf jvyy unir cevinpl!
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Brad
Templeton (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brad_Templeton)\f[R]
.PP
Errors using inadequate data are much less than those using no data at
all.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Charles
Babbage (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Babbage)\f[R]
.PP
In the future, search engines should be as useful as HAL in the movie
\f[I]2001: A Space Odyssey\f[R]--but hopefully they won\[aq]t kill
people.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Sergey
Brin (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sergey_Brin)\f[R]
.PP
.PP
.TS
tab(@);
l.
T{
\f[B]Everything\f[R]
T}
.TE
.PP
Doubt is not a pleasant condition, but certainty is an absurd one.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Voltaire (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voltaire)\f[R]
.PP
There are three principal ways to lose money: wine, women, and
engineers.
While the first two are more pleasant, the third is by far the more
certain.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Baron
Rothschild (http://www.jewishpeople.net/barrot.html)\f[R]
.PP
God is a hacker, not an engineer.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Francis
Crick (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francis_Crick)\f[R]
.PP
You can do reverse engineering, but you can\[aq]t do reverse hacking.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - V. S.
Ramachandran (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vilayanur_S._Ramachandran)\f[R]
.PP
I have often thought that if there had been a good rap group in those
days, I might have chosen a career in music instead of politics.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Richard Nixon (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nixon)\f[R]
.PP
If I have made myself clear, you must have misunderstood me.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Alan
Greenspan (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenspan)\f[R]
.PP
Science is like sex: sometimes something useful comes out, but that is
not the reason we are doing it
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Richard Feynman (http://www.feynmanonline.com/)\f[R]
.PP
Literature is mostly about having sex, and not much about having babies;
life is the other way round.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - David
Lodge (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Lodge_%28author%29)\f[R]
.PP
More than any other time in history mankind faces a crossroads.
One path leads to despair and utter hopelessness, the other to total
extinction.
Let us pray we have the wisdom to choose correctly.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ -Woody
Allen (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woody_Allen)\f[R]
.PP
When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however
improbable, must be the truth.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Sir Arthur Conan
Doyle (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Conan_Doyle)\f[R]
.PP
Chance favors only the prepared mind.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Louis Pasteur (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pasteur)\f[R]
.PP
Lord, give us the wisdom to utter words that are gentle and tender, for
tomorrow we may have to eat them.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ -Sen. Morris Udall (http://www.udall.gov/mku.htm)\f[R]
.PP
It does not require a majority to prevail, but rather an irate, tireless
minority keen to set brush fires in people\[aq]s minds.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Samuel Adams (http://www.samadams.com/)\f[R]
.PP
I don\[aq]t want to achieve immortality through my work ...
I want to achieve it through not dying.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Woody
Allen (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woody_allen)\f[R]
.PP
I am a man of fixed and unbending principles, the first of which is to
be flexible at all times.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Sen. Everett
Dirksen (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirksen)\f[R]
.PP
When I face an issue of great import that cleaves both constituents and
colleagues, I always take the same approach.
I engage in deep deliberation and quiet contemplation.
I wait to the last available minute and then I always vote with the
losers.
Because, my friend, the winners never remember and the losers never
forget.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Sen. Everett
Dirksen (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirksen)\f[R]
.PP
Wise men make proverbs, but fools repeat them.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Samuel
Palmer (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samuel_Palmer)\f[R]
.PP
In the End, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the
silence of our friends.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Martin Luther King
Jr. (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luther_King)\f[R]
.PP
In the end, everything is a gag.
.PD 0
.P
.PD
\f[I]\ \ \ \ - Charlie
Chaplin (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Chaplin_%28disambiguation%29)\f[R]
.PP
   *   *   *   *   *
.PP
\f[I]Peter Norvig (http://norvig.com/index.html)\f[R]
