<div type="level1" xml:id="familiar-and-unfamiliar-quotations">
  <head>Familiar and Unfamiliar Quotations</head>
  <p></p>
</div>
<div type="level1" xml:id="about-life-the-universe-computers-and-everything">
  <head>About
  <ref target="http://norvig.com/quotations.html#life">Life</ref>,
  <ref target="http://norvig.com/quotations.html#universe">The
  Universe</ref>,
  <ref target="http://norvig.com/quotations.html#computers">Computers,</ref>
  and
  <ref target="http://norvig.com/quotations.html#everything">Everything</ref></head>
  <milestone unit="undefined" type="separator" rendition="line" />
  <p></p>
  <table>
    <row role="label">
      <cell></cell>
    </row>
    <row>
      <cell><p><hi rendition="simple:bold">Life</hi></p></cell>
    </row>
  </table>
  <p>Always do right. This will gratify some people and astonish the
  rest.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mark_twain">Mark
  Twain</ref></hi></p>
  <p>A man is a success if he gets up in the morning and gets to bed at
  night, and in between he does what he wants to
  do.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bob_Dylan">Bob
  Dylan</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Don't wait for the Last Judgement. It takes place every
  day.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Albert_Camus">Albert
  Camus</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Brick walls are there for a reason. They're not there to keep us
  out. The brick walls are there to give us a chance to show how badly
  we want something.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://randypausch.com/">Randy Pausch</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Far and away the best prize life has to offer is the chance to work
  hard at work worth doing.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Theodore_Roosevelt">Theodore
  Roosevelt</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I cannot afford to waste my time making
  money.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Louis_Agassiz">Louis
  Agassiz</ref></hi></p>
  <p>All you have to decide is what you're going to do with the time you
  are given.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gandalf">Gandalf</ref></hi></p>
  <p>The quality of a person's life is in direct proportion to their
  commitment to excellence, regardless of their field of
  endeavor.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.vincelombardi.com/">Vince
  Lombardi</ref></hi></p>
  <p>No art, however minor, demands less than total dedication if you
  want to excel in it.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Leone_Battista_Alberti">Leon
  Battista Alberti</ref>, (architect, painter and
  mathematician)</hi></p>
  <p>My crystal ball is fuzzy<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/People/Faculty/Homepages/zadeh.html">Lotfi
  Zadeh</ref> (inventor of Fuzzy Logic, when asked to predict the
  future)</hi></p>
  <p>If I had a dollar for every million-dollar idea I've had, I'd be
  rich.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.compliancemedia.com/Principals.html">Greg
  Meyer</ref></hi></p>
  <p>There's nothing that will change someone's moral outlook quicker
  than cash in large sums.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Larry_Flynt">Larry
  Flynt</ref></hi></p>
  <p>The perfect is the enemy of the
  good.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voltaire">Voltaire</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I have great faith in fools. Self-confidence, my friends call
  it.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edgar_Allan_Poe">Edgar Allen
  Poe</ref></hi></p>
  <p>The point of all this is to be able to spend more time at the
  beach!<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://robotics.stanford.edu/users/nilsson/bio.html">Nils
  Nilsson</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Being famous has its benefits, but fame isn't one of
  them.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.wall.org/~larry/">Larry Wall</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Personally, I liked the university. They gave us money and
  facilities, we didn't have to produce anything! You've never been out
  of college! You don't know what it's like out there! I've
  <hi rendition="simple:italic">worked</hi> in the private sector. They
  expect
  <hi rendition="simple:italic">results</hi>.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.imdb.com/name/nm0000101/">Dr Ray Stanz (Dan
  Aykroyd)</ref>, Ghostbusters</hi></p>
  <p>A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely
  rearranging their prejudices.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/William_James">William
  James</ref></hi></p>
  <p>It is the mark of an educated mind to be able to entertain a
  thought without accepting it.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aristotle">Aristotle</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I try to leave out the parts that people
  skip.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/Elmore_Leonard">Elmore
  Leonard</ref> (on his secret to writing)</hi></p>
  <p>Either write something worth reading or do something worth
  writing.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Benjamin_Franklin">Benjamin
  Franklin</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Believe, if thou wilt, that mountains change their place, but
  believe not that man changes his
  nature.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mohammed">Mohammed</ref></hi></p>
  <p></p>
  <table>
    <row role="label">
      <cell></cell>
    </row>
    <row>
      <cell><p><hi rendition="simple:bold">The Universe</hi></p></cell>
    </row>
  </table>
  <p>In the beginning, the Universe was created. This has made a lot of
  people very angry and been widely regarded as a bad
  move.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.douglasadams.com/">Douglas
  Adams</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Space isn't remote at all. It's only an hour's drive away if your
  car could go straight
  upwards.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fred_Hoyle">Fred
  Hoyle</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Man is the best computer we can put aboard a spacecraft... and the
  only one that can be mass produced with unskilled
  labor.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://liftoff.msfc.nasa.gov/academy/history/vonBraun/vonBraun.html">Wernher
  von Braun</ref></hi></p>
  <p>We can lick gravity, but sometimes the paperwork is
  overwhelming.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://liftoff.msfc.nasa.gov/academy/history/vonBraun/vonBraun.html">Wernher
  von Braun</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I don't see any god up
  here.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gagarin">Yuri Gagarin</ref>
  (in orbit, 1961)</hi></p>
  <p>Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and
  I'm not sure about the
  former.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Einstein">Albert
  Einstein</ref></hi></p>
  <p>There are 10<hi rendition="simple:superscript">11</hi> stars in the
  galaxy. That used to be a <hi rendition="simple:italic">huge</hi>
  number. But it's only a hundred billion. It's less than the national
  deficit! We used to call them astronomical numbers. Now we should call
  them economical numbers.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.feynmanonline.com/">Richard
  Feynman</ref></hi></p>
  <p>For all our conceits about being the center of the universe, we
  live in a routine planet of a humdrum star stuck away in an obscure
  corner ... on an unexceptional galaxy which is one of about 100
  billion galaxies. ... That is the fundamental fact of the universe we
  inhabit, and it is very good for us to understand
  that.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Carl_Sagan">Carl
  Sagan</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Far out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable end of the
  Western Spiral arm of the Galaxy lies a small unregarded yellow sun.
  Orbiting this at a distance of roughly ninety-eight million miles is
  an utterly insignificant little blue-green planet whose ape-descended
  life forms are so amazingly primitive that they still think digital
  watches are a pretty neat
  idea.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.douglasadams.com/">Douglas
  Adams</ref></hi></p>
  <p></p>
  <table>
    <row role="label">
      <cell></cell>
    </row>
    <row>
      <cell><p><hi rendition="simple:bold">Computers</hi></p></cell>
    </row>
  </table>
  <p>Some software is actually pretty good, by any standard. Think of
  the Mars Rovers, Google, and the Human Genome Project. Now, that's
  quality software!<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://parasol.tamu.edu/people/bs/">Bjarne
  Stroustrup</ref>, (when asked by
  <ref target="http://www.technologyreview.com/Infotech/17987/?a=f">Technology
  Review</ref> &quot;Why is software so bad?&quot;. I'm proud to have
  worked on two of those three projects.)</hi></p>
  <p>The world has arrived at an age of cheap complex devices of great
  reliability; and something is bound to come of
  it.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vannevar_Bush">Vannevar
  Bush</ref> (1945)</hi></p>
  <p>Power corrupts, and obsolete power corrupts
  obsoletely.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ted_Nelson">Ted
  Nelson</ref>, on the Microsoft DOS operating system</hi></p>
  <p>Computers make it easier to do a lot of things, but most of the
  things they make it easier to do don't need to be
  done<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andy_Rooney">Andy
  Rooney</ref></hi></p>
  <p>As soon as we started programming, we found out to our surprise
  that it wasn't as easy to get programs right as we had thought.
  Debugging had to be discovered. I can remember the exact instant when
  I realized that a large part of my life from then on was going to be
  spent in finding mistakes in my own
  programs.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Maurice_Wilkes">Maurice
  Wilkes</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Only wimps use tape backup: <hi rendition="simple:italic">real</hi>
  men just upload their important stuff on ftp, and let the rest of the
  world mirror it.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds">Linus
  Torvalds</ref></hi></p>
  <p>C++ is history repeated as tragedy. Java is history repeated as
  farce.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    - Scott McKay
  (swm@mediaone.net)</hi></p>
  <p>Nothing is destroyed until it is
  replaced.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Auguste_Comte">Auguste Comte
  (1798-1857)</ref> (on the need for revolutionary new theories (or on
  the need to do <seg type="code">x.f = null</seg> in garbage-collected
  languages with destructors))</hi></p>
  <p>In general, they do what you want, unless you want
  consistency.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.wall.org/~larry/">Larry Wall</ref> (on Perl
  functions)</hi></p>
  <p>Computer language design is just like a stroll in the park.
  Jurassic Park, that is.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.wall.org/~larry/">Larry Wall</ref></hi></p>
  <p>If you give someone Fortran, he has Fortran. If you give someone
  Lisp, he has any language he
  pleases.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guy_Steele">Guy L.
  Steele</ref></hi></p>
  <p>[Lisp] is the only computer language that is
  beautiful.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neal_Stephenson">Neal
  Stephenson</ref></hi></p>
  <p>If you can't hear me, it's because I'm in
  parentheses.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Steven_Wright">Steven
  Wright</ref></hi></p>
  <p>He who refuses to do arithmetic is doomed to talk
  nonsense.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www-formal.stanford.edu/jmc/">John
  McCarthy</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Belief is no substitute for
  arithmetic.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.lysator.liu.se/c/henry/">Henry
  Spencer</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Object-oriented programming is an exceptionally bad idea which
  could only have originated in
  California.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/UTCS/report/1994/profiles/dijkstra.html">Edsger
  Dijkstra</ref> (attributed)</hi></p>
  <p>We read Knuth so you don't have
  to.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -<ref target="http://c2.com/cgi/wiki?TimPeters">Tim
  Peters</ref> (explaining what the Python developers do in their spare
  time)</hi></p>
  <p>Computers are useless. They can only give you
  answers.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Picasso">Pablo
  Picasso</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I do not believe in objects. I believe only in their
  relationships.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Braque">George
  Braque</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I don't paint things. I only paint the difference between
  things.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matisse">Henri
  Matisse</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Mathematicians do not study objects, but relations among objects;
  they are indifferent to the replacement of objects by others as long
  the relations don't change. Matter is not important, only form
  interests them.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henri_Poincar%C3%A9">Henri
  Poincare</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Have nothing in your houses that you do not know to be useful, or
  believe to be beautiful.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.morrissociety.org/">William
  Morris</ref></hi></p>
  <p>All models are wrong. Some models are
  useful.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.engr.wisc.edu/ie/faculty/box_george.html">George
  Box</ref></hi></p>
  <p>When cryptography is outlawed, bayl bhgynjf jvyy unir
  cevinpl!<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brad_Templeton">Brad
  Templeton</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Errors using inadequate data are much less than those using no data
  at all.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Babbage">Charles
  Babbage</ref></hi></p>
  <p>In the future, search engines should be as useful as HAL in the
  movie <hi rendition="simple:italic">2001: A Space Odyssey</hi>--but
  hopefully they won't kill
  people.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sergey_Brin">Sergey
  Brin</ref></hi></p>
  <p></p>
  <table>
    <row role="label">
      <cell></cell>
    </row>
    <row>
      <cell><p><hi rendition="simple:bold">Everything</hi></p></cell>
    </row>
  </table>
  <p>Doubt is not a pleasant condition, but certainty is an absurd
  one.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Voltaire">Voltaire</ref></hi></p>
  <p>There are three principal ways to lose money: wine, women, and
  engineers. While the first two are more pleasant, the third is by far
  the more certain.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.jewishpeople.net/barrot.html">Baron
  Rothschild</ref></hi></p>
  <p>God is a hacker, not an
  engineer.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Francis_Crick">Francis
  Crick</ref></hi></p>
  <p>You can do reverse engineering, but you can't do reverse
  hacking.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vilayanur_S._Ramachandran">V.
  S. Ramachandran</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I have often thought that if there had been a good rap group in
  those days, I might have chosen a career in music instead of
  politics.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nixon">Richard
  Nixon</ref></hi></p>
  <p>If I have made myself clear, you must have misunderstood
  me.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Greenspan">Alan
  Greenspan</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Science is like sex: sometimes something useful comes out, but that
  is not the reason we are doing
  it<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.feynmanonline.com/">Richard
  Feynman</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Literature is mostly about having sex, and not much about having
  babies; life is the other way
  round.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/David_Lodge_%28author%29">David
  Lodge</ref></hi></p>
  <p>More than any other time in history mankind faces a crossroads. One
  path leads to despair and utter hopelessness, the other to total
  extinction. Let us pray we have the wisdom to choose
  correctly.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -<ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woody_Allen">Woody
  Allen</ref></hi></p>
  <p>When you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however
  improbable, must be the
  truth.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Arthur_Conan_Doyle">Sir
  Arthur Conan Doyle</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Chance favors only the prepared
  mind.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pasteur">Louis
  Pasteur</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Lord, give us the wisdom to utter words that are gentle and tender,
  for tomorrow we may have to eat
  them.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -<ref target="http://www.udall.gov/mku.htm">Sen.
  Morris Udall</ref></hi></p>
  <p>It does not require a majority to prevail, but rather an irate,
  tireless minority keen to set brush fires in people's
  minds.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://www.samadams.com/">Samuel Adams</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I don't want to achieve immortality through my work ... I want to
  achieve it through not dying.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Woody_allen">Woody
  Allen</ref></hi></p>
  <p>I am a man of fixed and unbending principles, the first of which is
  to be flexible at all times.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirksen">Sen. Everett
  Dirksen</ref></hi></p>
  <p>When I face an issue of great import that cleaves both constituents
  and colleagues, I always take the same approach. I engage in deep
  deliberation and quiet contemplation. I wait to the last available
  minute and then I always vote with the losers. Because, my friend, the
  winners never remember and the losers never
  forget.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dirksen">Sen. Everett
  Dirksen</ref></hi></p>
  <p>Wise men make proverbs, but fools repeat
  them.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Samuel_Palmer">Samuel
  Palmer</ref></hi></p>
  <p>In the End, we will remember not the words of our enemies, but the
  silence of our friends.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luther_King">Martin Luther
  King Jr.</ref></hi></p>
  <p>In the end, everything is a
  gag.<lb /><hi rendition="simple:italic">    -
  <ref target="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles_Chaplin_%28disambiguation%29">Charlie
  Chaplin</ref></hi></p>
  <milestone unit="undefined" type="separator" rendition="line" />
  <p><hi rendition="simple:italic"><ref target="http://norvig.com/index.html">Peter
  Norvig</ref></hi></p>
</div>
